.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
.\" Copyright (C) 2026 South Australia Medical Imaging
.Dd 1 April 2026
.Dt SPIDER 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm spider
.Nd compute a time-integrated activity image
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm spider
.Op Fl fV
.Op Fl e Ar elastix_param
.Op Fl z Ar time_zone
.Ar directory1
.Ar directory2
.Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
computes the time-integrated activity image from a time series of two
or more SPECT scans.  Each directory argument specifies a SPECT DICOM
series.  SPECT images are registered to the SPECT in
.Ar directory1 .
All SPECTs are expected to have the same value for the DICOM attribute
Units (0054,1001), and the resulting time-integrated activity image
has those units \(mu seconds.  The image is written in NIfTI format to
a file named tia.nii in the current directory.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f
Overwrite output files.
.Pp
.It Fl V
Display the version number and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl e Ar elastix_param
The elastix parameter file to use for SPECT image registration.  See
.Lk http://elastix.dev
for details.  The default is the installed
.Pa share/spider/Parameters_Rigid.txt .
.Pp
.It Fl z Ar time_zone
For this SPECT's DICOM series, interpret DICOM Date, Time, and Date
Time values that lack an explicit time zone in
.Ar time_zone ,
the name of a time zone in the IANA tz database (e.g. Europe/Paris).
If this option is specified only once, this time zone is used for all
SPECTs.  If this option is specified more than once, it must be
specified once for each SPECT, in the same order as the directory
arguments.  If omitted, the local time zone is used for all SPECTs.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr spider_tia 1
