.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
.\" Copyright (C) 2026 South Australia Medical Imaging
.Dd 24 February 2026
.Dt SPIDER_TIA 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm spider_tia
.Nd compute a time-integrated activity image
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm spider_tia
.Op Fl fV
.Op Fl o Ar output_file
.br
{
.Op Fl z Ar time_zone
.Fl d Ar directory
.Fl i Ar image
}
.Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
computes the time-integrated activity image from a time series of two
or more SPECT scans.  A
.Ar directory
argument and an
.Ar image
argument are provided for each SPECT scan:
.Ar directory
is the directory containing the SPECT DICOM series, and
.Ar image
is a three-dimensional image file obtained by converting that DICOM
series, optionally modified by image registration.  The images are
expected to be co-registered.  The images are expected to have the
same pixel value units (e.g. Bq/mL).  The time-integrated activity
image has those units \(mu seconds.  The time-integrated activity
image is written in NIfTI format to a file named tia.nii in the
current directory, unless the
.Fl o
option is specified.
.Pp
The order in which
.Fl d
options are provided must correspond to the order in which
.Fl i
options are provided; i.e., the nth
.Fl d
option and the nth
.Fl i
option must correspond to the same SPECT scan.  Likewise, if the
.Fl z
option is provided more than once, it must be provided once for each
SPECT scan, in the order matching the
.Fl d
and
.Fl i
options.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f
Overwrite output files.
.Pp
.It Fl V
Display the version number and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl o Ar output_file
Write the time-integrated activity image to
.Ar output_file .
The parent directory must already exist.  See the
.Fl i
option for supported file formats and file name suffix requirements.
.Pp
.It Fl z Ar time_zone
For this SPECT's DICOM series, interpret DICOM Date, Time, and Date
Time values that lack an explicit time zone in
.Ar time_zone ,
the name of a time zone in the IANA tz database (e.g. Europe/Paris).
If this option is specified only once, this time zone is used for all
SPECTs.  If this option is specified more than once, it must be
specified once for each SPECT.  If omitted, the local time zone is
used for all SPECTs.
.Pp
.It Fl d Ar directory
The directory containing the DICOM series of the SPECT scan.
.Pp
.It Fl i Ar image
The file name of the three-dimensional SPECT image.  This file may be
in NIfTI format, compressed or not.  MetaImage and NRRD formats are
also supported if the corresponding ImageIO module is included in the
ITK library against which
.Nm
was built.  The file name must have a suffix corresponding to its file
format.  For a detached header format, the header file must be
specified.  For example, the suffix can be .nii or .nii.gz for
NIfTI, .mha or .mhd for MetaImage, and .nrrd or .nhdr for NRRD.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
